= sugarfree-config

Configuration handling the easy way.

sugarfree-config allows easy access to per environment config values
stored in a YAML file in Rails and non Rails applications.

== Installation

Just install the gem manually from rubygems.org or add it to your bundle.

  $ gem install sugarfree-config

== Usage

Configuration can be accessed using method calls:

  SugarfreeConfig.a.b.c #=> 'value'

which will expect a config.yml file like the one below (given development env) 
stored in the config folder (in Rails apps) or the root folder (in non Rails apps):

  development:
    a:
      b:
        c: 'value'

If asking for akey that does not exists ConfigKeyException will be raised.

A convinience to_hash method is also provided:

  SugarfreeConfig.a.to_hash #=> { 'b' => { 'c' => 'value' } }

== Configuration

sugarfree-config can be used with or without Rails. Default configurations are
provided for each case. Default configurations can be overriden the explicit use
of the SugarfreeConfig::init method.

To set the configuration you need to initialize the SugarfreeConfig class:

  SugarfreeConfig.init :env => 'development', :file => 'my_config.yml', :reload => true

  # Default options in Rails apps
  SugarfreeConfig.init({
    :env => Rails.env,
    :file => Rails.root.join('config', 'config.yml'),
    :reload => Rails.env.development?
  })

  # Default options in non Rails apps
  SugarfreeConfig.init({
    :env => 'development',
    :file => File.expand_path('config.yml'),
    :reload => false
  })


== Gotchas

Configuration is accessed through a ConfigIterator class which (as its name says) is
an iterator and cannot be reused. However there is a workaround to allow the
repeated use of scoped iterators.

  # This doesn't work
  var a_config = SugarfreeConfig.a
  a_config.b.c #=> 'value'
  a_config.b.c #=> Ups!!! tried to grab config.a.b.c.b.c

  # Workaround
  var a_config = SugarfreeConfig.a
  a_config.dup.b.c #=> 'value'
  a_config.dup.b.c #=> 'value'


== Compatibility

SugarfreeConfig 2.0.0 has been developed and tested against Ruby 1.9.2 and Rails 3.x. 
Older versions of Ruby and Rails may also work. Just give it a try ;)

== Contact

Please use GitHub (https://github.com/davidbarral/sugarfree-config) to report bugs,
make suggestions or send patches.


